Is owning a Python snake legal in the United States?
####################################################
:date: 2021-01-16 14:03
:author: pythonmarketer
:category: Uncategorized
:slug: 5014
:status: draft

I'm hypothesizing that there is a tiny fraction of people searching related to "Amazon" who find my site from time to time. This made me wonder if there are people who may find my site looking for actual snakes rather than programming. So on that rare chance you're here for information about real snakes, maybe this will help! I wasn't sure where the law draws the line with snakes. It wasn't necessarily easy to pin down.

I found this `Large Constrictor Snake Final Rule: Questions and Answers <https://www.fws.gov/verobeach/PythonPDF/20150306%20LCS%20Final%20Rule%20QA%204.pdf>`__ from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service very informative. The short answer is yes, it seems so? But the feds say you can't take your snake on vacation across state lines. Python Marketer has no dog in this fight and is simply curious to know the facts. (aka Google)

It seems that some snakes have "injurious" liability and are deemed not legal to cross state borders. It seems owning a Python is legal in in America. You do you, Snake kings.

   Q. What action is the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) taking?

   | A. The Service is designating live reticulated pythons (Python reticulatus), green
   | anacondas (Eunectes murinus), Beni anacondas (Eunectes beniensis), and
   | DeSchauensee’s anacondas (Eunectes deschauenseei), as injurious wildlife under the
   | Lacey Act (18 U.S.C. 42, as amended). This action will prohibit the importation and
   | interstate transport of four more of the nine species of nonnative constrictor snakes
   | proposed as injurious by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in 2010.

   **Can someone lawfully own a boa constrictor snake in America?**

   Q: How many other species of constrictor snakes are available to the pet industry to

   sell?

   A: There are more than 25 other species of constrictor snakes in the pet trade that are not

   regulated as injurious wildlife. For example, the amethystine python and scrub python

   are giant constrictors and are not listed as injurious

   U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) - `Large Constrictor Snake Final Rule: Questions and Answers <https://www.fws.gov/verobeach/PythonPDF/20150306%20LCS%20Final%20Rule%20QA%204.pdf>`__\ 
