Title: The Gamification of Games and Life
Date: 2021-12-26 21:15
Author: intellectualpositivity
Category: Uncategorized
Slug: 6353
Status: draft

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

I was playing [8 Ball pool](https://www.miniclip.com/games/8-ball-pool-multiplayer/en/#privacy-settings) this weekend, one of my favorite games at the moment. I like it because it does a great job of mimicking the gameplay, strategy and geometry needed to win a game of billiards.

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

You begin with a few thousand chips in your bank. Each game is played against a real player from somewhere around the world. When a game starts, both players make a bet for 500 or so coins, winner-take-all style. These coins are the game's currency. They can be used to upgrade your pool cue and unlock new venues to play in. As you progress through the venues, the number of coins at stake for each game increases from 100 to 5,000 to 10,000 on up to 1 million chips per game and beyond.

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

As you earn more coins, you're increasingly enticed to put more of them at risk in a single match. Winning in the higher venues increases your level of achievement. I watched myself progress though a simulation of what happens when you succeed and then lose sight of why you're playing the game.

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

**Too Much is Never Enough**

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

With ever increasing levels, the urge to level up faster by betting more of your stack is always there. Soon, it's not enough to just play and enjoy pool. And I love pool! It's a wonderful game of skill and strategy. But the gamification is very high with this game. Soon it is no longer about pool. It's about increasing your stack and rank.

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

As I achieved about 5 million coins, something funny happened. I began risking huge amounts of my coins on single games. Maybe it's because I grew to overconfident in my ability to win. If I lose, I know my win percentage is about 60%, so the next game will likely be a win.

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

I start rushing my shots and making silly rookie mistakes. I lost most of my coins on a bad losing streak betting too aggressively. Right now I have about 500,000 coins. The funny thing is they only have value in the game. The billiards game I enjoy has been hijacked by the coin system. Nothing else matters except getting coins. You can also pay real money for these coins which have no tangible value outside of the app.

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

I'm positing that money works like this in real life also. We get caught up in "leveling up", with increasingly higher plateaus we seek to attain. When we lose sight of the game and just enjoying it, we don't perform our best. We are less appreciative. Suddenly, just winning a game of pool (the reason I even started playing the game) is no longer enough.

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

`<!-- wp:paragraph -->`{=html}

Money is a necessary lubricant of society so I'm not here to trash money. But we need to make sure that money doesn't become our focus. Focus on enjoying the game!

`<!-- /wp:paragraph -->`{=html}
